If you look back on humanity, how many
inflection points in terms of industries
emerging,
can you point to and how lucky do you
have to be to sort of be on the scene
and have a chance to to do that? If one
shows up and you've got uh an invitation
to sit at the table, it seemed to me
like it would be, you know, a real miss
not to try to take part in something
like that.
Hey everyone, welcome to the Smart
Economy podcast where we ask your
favorite builders the questions you wish
you could ask yourself. This is a
production of neonnewstoday.com and I'm
your host Dylan Grabowski. In this
episode of the Smart Economy podcast,
we're joined by Nick Hansen, the team
lead at the Graph Foundation, the entity
responsible for stewarding the graph, an
indexing protocol for organizing
blockchain data and making it easily
accessible. In this conversation, Nick
and I discussed how hosting a podcast
led to becoming the lead at a brand name
blockchain foundation. How the graph
aims to be the Google of blockchains,
the benefit of decentralized solutions
over their centralized counterparts,
innovating blockchain projects that have
the OG status, and so much more. Just a
reminder, nothing said on this podcast
is a solicitation to buy or sell any
tokens and that the host or guest might
hold tokens discussed in any given
episode. You can read a disclaimer at
neonnew.com.
And if you enjoyed this episode, please
consider rating and reviewing on your
favorite podcasting platform and sharing
with your friends and family. Every
rating, review, like, comment, and share
helps us reach more people and bring you
more of your favorite guests. With all
that said, I really enjoyed chatting
with Nick, and I hope you enjoy the
conversation, too. Hey everyone, welcome
to the Smart Economy podcast. Today
we're joined by Nick Hansen, the team
lead at the Graph Foundation. I'm really
excited about this conversation today.
Nick, how are you doing?
>> I'm doing great, Dylan. Thank you so
much for having me here. I've been
thrilled to meet you and uh take part in
this discussion. So, thanks, man.
>> Yeah, this is going to be awesome. Um,
you've got a really cool background.
It's kind of like winding and curving
like mine. Um, but before we dig into
that, I do just kind of want to get a
sense of what was your introduction into
blockchain and crypto. I asked this
question and like 80% of the people are
like, I looked at Bitcoin in 2012 and
didn't come back until 2017. What's your
situation? What's your experience with
blockchain crypto like? And did you have
your aha moment immediately or did it
take a few years?
>> Yeah. So I actually know the moment like
I know the moment when this happened
which is a trip but I was working as a
marketing business development guy in
traditional finance. So worked for a
little boutique regional broker dealer
or raia. So anybody that's sort of in
the trady world will know what those
terms are. But for those that don't,
small little organization and my brother
called me one day and we were just
catching up and he said, you know, I
don't understand why you tradi guys
aren't talking more about crypto. Uh,
this is the next huge asset class. And
at the time, you know, if I could have
him on here, it would be very funny to
hear him and I go back and forth, but I
basically said to him, look, you could
drive to the building right now, come up
to the conference room, I'll put
everyone in our organization in there,
and no one will know what the heck
you're talking about. like not only is
there no interest, like nobody here even
knows what you're talking about. So, um
that opened the door to a longer
conversation that I think even continued
on my drive home, I I caught up with him
again on the way home. And in essence,
uh you know, older brother said, "Look,
you need to pay more attention to this.
There's a lot of really interesting
things going on there. This is sort of
the way the future's going. So, whether
or not your organization or the people
you work with have any interest is my
brother. You need to kind of wake up and
pay more attention." So, I did. And um
I'll be honest and I think this is sort
of pretty common. You know, it started
with an interest in Bitcoin and this new
uh economic or financial system. So
yeah, I I opened a Coinbase account and
I thought, you know, what's going on
here? What are tokens? Can you buy these
things and and how does all of that
work? So that was my introduction. It
came through a brother prompting me to
kind of get involved. I didn't know
anything at the time. I recall uh when I
was a younger guy in a a different
industry besides uh Tradfi, I recall
being in the office one day and a
colleague a few cubes down from me said,
you know, let's buy some Bitcoin today.
And I I I I remember mocking him for
probably 30 or 40 minutes straight, just
the jokes about sort of what he was
thinking and what he was up to. So, I
had early ideas of Bitcoin um a long
time ago, but I didn't do anything. It
was a call from a brother that sort of
turned the light bulb on and got me
interested.
>> What year was it when you were making
fun of your coworker for wanting to buy
Bitcoin? And then what year was it when
your brother kind of like sparked the
the drive for you?
>> Yep. So, I'm going to get the year wrong
with my colleague, but it was definitely
>> early.
>> Really early. It's like maybe early
2010s. Okay. So, somewhere in there. I
mean it was a long time ago.
>> Yeah.
>> Um
>> and this guy was very forward thinking.
He was a little bit of a technologist.
We were working in real estate at the
time. So, you know, we weren't talking
about Bitcoin every day. We were talking
about leases and land development deals.
And so, he was just always a little
spunky and had crazy ideas. But yeah, we
we were joking and and we gave him a lot
of crap for that um that day. And then
my brother was 2021, I think, uh around
that time period, late in the year. Um
and yeah, that that conversation, I'll
never forget it. I remember looking out
my office window just being like, "Man,
I love this guy. He is calling me in the
middle of my day pitching me crypto.
What is he talking about?"
>> Awesome. So, you I alluded to this in
kind of like the intro, but you and I
have both had winding paths that ended
us into the blockchain space. Mine um is
a little bit more straightforward. I
worked as an urban planner before I got
bit by the cryptobug in 2017. And then
less than 7 months after buying my first
Bitcoin, I was my first portion of a
Bitcoin. Um, I was working full-time in
the blockchain space. Uh, prior to you
joining the graph ecosystem, you you
mentioned earlier that you had your hand
in a lot of different interesting pots.
Real estate sales, you did you did a
radio talk show stint, you were in
marketing department for TRFI, you also
taught a little bit. So maybe we can
just kind of do the the ontology of of
your career. Like where did you start
out and then like how did your path lead
you to the graph?
>> Yeah. Well, it it is a winding road and
I think that's pretty common for web 3.
I I don't remember who it was. I was
talking to somebody one day and it said,
you know, you almost need somebody that
is open to the windiness of career
flexibility to even enter into the space
at least as it presently sits. Um yeah,
my background, you know, I've always
cared a lot about career. I've always
cared a lot about profession probably
too much but early on in my life um I
got involved in real estate so I was an
asset manager uh worked on some big
projects where basically I would manage
uh you know office buildings, medical
buildings, retail sites and I did that
for quite a while and uh I didn't really
enjoy it. Around that time I was trying
to figure out an off-ramp of you know
how do I get out of real estate if this
isn't my thing? And so I went and got a
graduate degree in business and I was
just sort of hoping that that would uh
be a launch pad for me to try something
different and it worked. Uh I sort of
leveraged out of real estate into a
short stint in sales. Um but it was
around that time that an old high school
friend reached out to me and said, "Hey,
you know, we're uh thinking about doing
a radio show and you've always been, you
know, kind of an interesting guy.
probably could do the host thing and
would you be willing to kind of meet me
and my partner on Saturdays? We'll go
down to the radio station uh and we'll
record a radio show. So, I did. So, it
was basically like a side hustle a
little bit. Um I I don't even know if
they offered to pay me, but I was
excited at the opportunity. The the
radio station itself here where I live
was fairly wellnown. So, I thought,
well, people are going to hear this.
This isn't some weird little uh radio
station that no one will ever hear. So,
yeah, I went and did it and it was a
thrill. We did um live uh shows. So live
radio is amazing, right? We had a couple
times where there was like some sort of
external event that we had to warn
people about traffic or some health
concerns. So that was always fun to get
the notes and kind of have to do that
live and coming in and out of breaks. Uh
and so I did that for a while. I still
had my sales gig and then uh those guys
at the financial firm that we were
working on the radio show said, "Hey,
why don't you come do full-time
marketing for us?" So leveraged out of
that to go with them and then that's
where I sat down for a while and and
worked with them and uh I loved it. We
grew that firm. I was part of sort of a
really amazing growth uh trajectory and
had a lot of fun working with that team.
And while I was working in that
financial uh organization, the college
where I went and got my graduate degree
reached out to me and said, "Hey, um we
have a business class. We think you're
best suited for it. would you ever be
willing to come back and and teach here?
I was in the middle of a transition. So,
I said no. But it was really hard for me
because my dream I think I if I could
like start my life over, I was probably
born to be an academic. I really love
academia. I love teaching. So, I was
like, "Oh man, I I have to say no. I'm
just changing jobs. It doesn't work."
And maybe two or three months go by and
then the dean of the business school
reached out and said, "Hey, you know,
this is my baby. This is my class. I
taught it to you. I really need to hand
it off to like the next generation. Will
you please come teach it?" And so yeah,
I I now I have another side hustle. So I
stayed at the financial firm, continued
working on that and then uh nights and
weekends I would go teach and I think I
taught for I'm forgetting seven years,
maybe you'll know better because you
looked recently, but around seven years
and I loved it. I I would I would work
all day, grab a quick sandwich and
coffee and head straight into a class
and teach that night and would teach
graduate students, undergraduate
students. And I loved it. And I did that
for a very long time until I got a call
from my brother one day and said, "You
need to start paying attention to
crypto."
>> Awesome. It all comes full circle. Um,
and I want to delve into the interesting
way in which you broke into the crypto
space as well. But I guess as a content
creator, um, both of us are content
creators, um, and have been over the
past handful of years. what what was it
about like radio that made you think
this is something I want to do? And I I
asked that question. It sounds really
simple at at face value, but we're in
the era of streaming services. We're in
the era of Netflix. We're in the era of
podcasts and have been for the past
decade or so. So, and and I don't mean
to sound like radio's dying, but like
what made you say like, "Hell yeah, I'm
going to give up a part of my Saturdays
to go into this thing that may or may
not have a dwindling audience because
perhaps there's a certain demographic
that only listens to radio." Um, and
then also, what was it like actually
like having a studio going into it? Um,
what were the topics you guys covered?
I'm just super interested in that. that
part of your background is just like
really cool to me.
>> Yeah. Well, thank you. I mean, it was an
amazing ride and I think some people are
like, "Oh, man, that sounds pretty
boring." And other people be like,
"That's super intimidating." But for me,
it was just the challenge of it, right?
I mean, going and doing from starting
from zero and going doing a live radio
show with two like financial experts and
asking them questions, taking callers,
um, working with a producer who's behind
the glass playing the music in and out
on a pretty well-known station. like
yeah I just thought well this is an
incredible challenge and it sounded like
a fun thing. So that was really my
interest and uh we we would talk about
you know we'd give people financial
advice. It was a little bit modeled on
for you know listeners of this podcast
who are in the US there's a guy in the
US called Dave Ramsey. He's a pretty
famous like you know uh thought leader
on personal finance. So we modeled a lot
of the show on that approach of taking
callers and trying to give personal
financial advice. So there was part of
it that's like you know this is
information I'd like to learn. Sure. Um,
the experience of getting to work and
reconnecting with an old high school
friend was interesting to me. But yeah,
going live on the air and knowing that
your margin for error was uh really
tight was amazing because you'd have
someone behind the glass being like, you
know, 10 seconds and you'd have to get
this question wound down and then get
the promo out the door and uh so it was
a lot of fun. Kept me on my toes and uh
I loved it.
>> Cool. Um the the kind of like seed that
got me interested into blockchain and
crypto was learning about index funds,
401ks, IAS, the very the very basics. Um
and then throughout my studies in 2015,
16,17, really getting to understand the
traditional financial world and how to
plan for retirement and all these
things, you kept coming across all these
people calling Bitcoin a scam. And of
course, after a while, you learn what a
401k is, you learn what an index fund
is, you kind of hit the level that you
need to. And then for me, it was like,
"All right, well, let's go research
Bitcoin." Um, and then of course I
bought some and and that was it for me.
Um, so for you, when when your after
that conversation with your brother, you
probably acquire some digital assets.
What's what happens then? Because if
it's similar to me, it became a thing
that was all consuming. It was all you
could think about. um it's creeping into
your mind during your day at at your day
job. Um what was it like for you and how
did you start exploring the various
different blockchain ecosystems after
you bought probably your first few blue
chips, Bitcoin, Ethereum, etc.? Yeah,
it's a good question and it's a little
bit nuanced and so forgive me if I take
you through it, but yes, he introduced
me, got me thinking about it, opened an
account on Coinbase, tried to figure out
what this whole thing was and um at the
time, you know, he was really
enthusiastic about a particular
protocol. I won't say what it was, but
you know, he was very excited about it.
So, he was
>> Is it still around?
>> Oh, oh, yeah, for sure. For sure. It's
very well known, but I just don't want
to do that to him or, you know, that
community. So uh basically though uh he
he educ he he was educating me and being
a great mentor uh but he was also doing
it through the lens of like a project he
was super interested in. So I used that
as my research vector his enthusiasm and
what I was seeing in there. And so
that's sort of how I learned it. I I was
looking at Coinbase and I was getting
information from my brother about this
particular project. And so what I
learned early on is that wow in web 3 in
this crypto thing um you can actually
start a brand and become a thought
leader because as I watched his project
and I listen to the types of people that
he was interested in or he was
connecting with these were just you know
content creators people that were
enthusiastic about the project and doing
like you just putting in time and
sacrificing and getting to know what was
going on in the space. So I immediately
launched an online brand. So, I was
teaching. I was on the financial thing.
And I'm like, "Okay, I probably got a
little more space to do one more side
hustle, which is let's just play this
out." Like, if you can really show up,
create an online brand and get involved
in this, then uh let's see how that
goes. So, I was contemplating how would
I do that? What would that look like?
And it was around that time that I
became aware of the graph. And the way I
found the graph was just serendipity. I
was looking at my Coinbase account one
night and uh I saw a new token launch
and it was called the graph and I'm like
what is this thing? So I started what I
hope most people would do is I started
googling the founders. I did as much
research as I could. So you know not
just like buy a buy and hold or buy and
flip type of mentality. It was like who
are these people? What are what are they
up to? What's this technology? So I
spent the evening googling the three
founders. I spent the evening googling
what is the graph? what is indexing
blockchain data and I I kind of built
some personal conviction that this is a
a new token. So it's it's it's a fresh
snow for a guy like me who wants to be a
content creator. I thought what I'll do
is I'll use my marketing some of my
tradi analytics a little bit of a you
know a scratch graph designer. I'm
probably not very good at all but at the
time I thought I could p pull this off.
So I would do analytics infographics. I
would interview people. So, I started
sending out, you know, written
interviews to people. I'd find them on
Discord or wherever and say, "Hey, I 10
questions." And I would publish it. So,
that's what I did. I became what I hoped
to be this online persona that could get
some traction in the graph space all
without knowing how this works. Would I
make money? Uh, was it worth it or not?
But I I had conviction for the graph.
These founders were real. They'd been
working on the problem for a long time.
it was new so I wasn't showing up to a
crowded space. So yeah, I rolled the
dice on that and and it started with
just online graphics, online marketing
and some written interviews and
eventually became a podcast and um a
little bit of a voice within the graph
community.
>> Yeah. So you have this kind of
background in in finances and this is
something that I've constantly been
grappling with since I've been working
in the space since 2018. And you see a
lot of anons on crypto Twitter who may
or may not get mad about the price of a
token. Usually they're mad when it's
going down and they say we're investors
in a project. And I've always been very
careful with my words ever since I
bought my first crypto in 2017 to
mention that we're speculating. We're
speculating on an asset. And maybe now,
finally, in 2025, maybe 2024, we could
start saying that like one or two blue
chips could be an investment because of
the way that Wall Street is looking at
ETFs, the underlying assets, what have
you. How do you kind of balance this
track record, this career in traditional
financial instruments and also this kind
of like wild west cutting edge digital
asset crypto space? How do you kind of
like balance trying to create a a a PE
ratio or or something similar that
that's realistic and grounded for how um
your friends who are outside of crypto
might be able to look at various
different digital assets.
>> Yeah. I mean I think first of all this
is not a graph ccentric question. This
is an industry question and any
participant in this industry has to
answer these types of questions. Um, for
me, you know, I've never advised anybody
to buy anything and um, I don't provide
financial advice. No one should take
financial advice from me. And I think
the regulatory environment, although,
you know, shifting favorable to all the
incredible things that have been done
within sort of this blockchain, crypto,
web3 industry, it's exciting to see,
it's still, you know, being shaped and I
think people need to be super cautious.
So, when I talk about it generally, I
say, you know, first of all, as you
said, these are high-risk um things, you
know, and you don't always know who's on
the other side of the table. You don't
always understand their intentions. And
so, the way to kind of get involved in
this thing is to do what I did and
presumably what you and a lot of
listeners did, which is get to know
people. Show up in Discord, get involved
in Telegram, and see if you can develop
some conviction for the actual tech and
the mission or mandate of what this uh
project aims to do. If you can get your
mind around that, then you can shake,
you know, a couple hands digitally or in
person, uh, then you're probably in a in
a position to kind of make some
decisions about, do I want to own that
token? Uh, do I want to participate in
that network in some other financial
way? And of course, you know, Web3
offers a variety of ways to to
participate in this way. But as a as a
general rule, you know, you you
absolutely have to do your own research.
And it's silly, right? because web 3 is
sort of like bastardized that term, but
it's it's just good oldfashioned logic,
right? This is true when you're buying a
home, when you're buying a car, when
you're uh choosing a partner, when
you're deciding if you want to get a
dog, like do your own research, figure
it out. And and the thing about
traditional finance that is super
apppropo for the types of things that
we're talking about today is traditional
finance recognizes that um the personal
needs and the risk tolerance and all of
those types of things related to your
own research and the decisions you make
evolve over time as you get older. You
know, you're probably more riskadverse
than you are as a young person. So what
does that mean? That just means that
there are a lot of rules already in
place um set in place through
traditional finance that you can
leverage to make decisions about you
know what you do uh with how you invest
and and the types of projects you get
interested and uh it's really important
to kind of leverage that framework
because it's already fully developed. I
mean Wall Street had a jump on on the
way to think about research and doing
your own research for a very long time.
The question though uh the other part of
your question is like what analytics do
you point to right like is there a PE
ratio and stuff and yeah that gets super
complicated like I said I I don't
provide financial advice and uh even in
my role in traditional finance I wasn't
even doing that type of work so uh even
to kind of say something about that
would be tricky but it is an industry
problem I think all projects need to get
better at uh communicating the
fundamentals and demonstrating sort of
value creation and value capture it's
not a it's not anything specific to any
projects. I'm interested. It's an
industry thing and I'm super excited uh
that you know the industry starts to do
better at that and I think regulatory
support and regulatory framework brings
that uh opportunity more to life. So
yeah, I think we'll see a lot of amazing
things sort of in the next few years
about that.
>> Yeah, I only ask because it's just so
hard to quantify and use objective
deliverable metrics still to this day
for a lot of different blockchain
projects. So, um, it it just feels like
we're just now turning the corner where
maybe, just maybe, we can start coming
up with some quantifiable measurements
that anybody who's interested in
exploring the space can use when they're
performing their own research. Um, but
the last question I want to ask before
we kind of like massage into the graph
and the graph ecosystem and and I'm
super glad you doubled down on on
talking about the the radio show
experience you had because I also think
that like the job you got out of your
radio show, you also leveraged your
podcast into helping you get a step up
into creating a role within the graph
ecosystem. So maybe we can talk a little
bit about the podcast. Um, you had more
than 200 uh interviews, which is
phenomenal. You're actually our 100th
interview for the Smart.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, that's amazing. Well, I'm honored
by that, by the way. That was a huge
deal for me. So, you know, um I guess
the fates lined it up this way, but
congratulations. That's a huge milestone
and yeah, I'm honored to be here. I
didn't know that, but congrats. That's a
big deal.
>> Yeah. Thank you. Thank you. So, um I
think that and I'll take another little
winding detour. Uh, a couple years ago,
the I went on a college campus
university tour to go talk to blockchain
clubs about how to build careers in web
3. And a lot of students wanted to be in
the web 3 space, but they were still
grappling this concept of do I build a
project now? Do I get my degree? I don't
know how to get into this space. It's
still also very nent. So there's no kind
of like trajectory to get in. you kind
of have to figure out a way to open the
door for yourself. And so you did this
with the QRTQ podcast. So how did um how
did you launch it? How did you come
across your guests? And then maybe we
can also use that experience that you
had and talk about how you parlayed that
into building a role within the graph
foundation and the graph ecosystem.
Okay, so the GRTIQ brand is is the brand
I launched when I started experimenting
with okay maybe I'll enter into the
space and it was after just a few months
I mean I think I launched GRTIQ
formally on a December into January and
and it was in March where the podcast
went live and so episode one launched I
never missed a Friday until my role
changed at the graph foundation so that
was always sort of a big deal to me that
ever since I launched I hit every Friday
and as you said uh over 200 episodes
interviewed a lot of people similar to
you inside outside the ecosystem just
want to get to know people and hear uh
stories very much sort um a
storyoriented interview type of style
like I I I'm non-technical so I didn't
want to get people on and debate uh
different things I just wanted to hear
like you're doing today uh how people
got to where they were and sort of what
their motivations were. I did that for
eight months um just as a side hustle.
So I got to know a lot of people. I
actually had the opportunity to
interview people at the Graph Foundation
that I would eventually go to work with.
But I was meeting a lot of other uh
thought leaders in the graph ecosystem.
And as I got my traction and as I built
up some credibility, those folks started
introducing me to other folks. And yeah,
I mean for anyone interested, you could
go to my podcast and kind of see that
yeah, I had some really great guests on
um notable guests that uh I was really
lucky to to network into. And I did that
for eight months. So I was teaching, I
was doing the financial thing, and I was
doing this podcast. And as you well
know, podcasts are a ton of work. And um
no one really appreciates how much
research and all the production and
everything that goes into this. So shout
out to you on your hundth. And I I know
that pain, but I loved it. And so this
this podcast experience for me was sort
of the transition away from that
Coinbase brother introduction of kind of
like, you know, what's going on in the
space to real deep conviction for the
people in the space. So I started
interviewing founders, builders, and
like I said, a lot of people within the
graph ecosystem, and I fell in love with
the people and the passion for why they
were here. And so it started to sort of
mold how I viewed this industry and it
became an education. I mean you can't
have, you know, an hourong conversation
every week and then edit it because I
was editing it myself and producing it
myself. So I was like revisiting every
interview multiple times. So yeah, you
hear this stuff, you get a real
education just from exposure. Yeah. And
I I started getting conviction. Okay.
Well, you know, I talked to Dylan.
Dylan's a brilliant guy. Gave up a lot.
Has a great education. Very honest. very
ethical and he's all in on this thing
and he's building this thing that does
you know X Y or Z wow this thing is
amazing so yeah initial spark of what is
this became these people are amazing
there's something real here and I was
very lucky uh sort of eight months in uh
the graph foundation came to me and said
we're looking for uh a role it just so
happened at at the traditional finance
uh organization I was working at there
was some change happening there so it
was a it was a uh a a vector at which I
had to make some life decisions and
career. And it was funny uh you you may
appreciate this, some of your listeners
might, but I came home on the day I sort
of needed to make that decision. And I
have a wife and two children and I
involved them in my in in my uh
professional decision. So, we kind of
laid out the benefits of staying, the
benefits of making the move and the
impact it would have. And uh yeah, I
just remember everyone at the table's
like, "Yeah, you got to do this crypto
thing. Like, what? This sounds like the
future. This is incredible tech." So,
made the move full-time to the
foundation and yeah, haven't looked
back.
>> Cool. Uh, also apologies, GRT IQ.
>> Yeah, no stress. No stress.
>> Um, that's amazing that and and that you
kind of half answered the other question
I wanted to ask. When I made my leap
full-time into crypto, I was uh single.
I was about to move between states. I
didn't have a lot of ties or
responsibilities to me. So, um, this was
also 3 years sooner than you jumped into
the space full-time. Um, what were the
the opportunities that you were super
excited about jumping full-time in into
the graph ecosystem? And if you can
recall, what were some some of the
concerns about going into this naent
industry in general full-time?
>> Yeah, so I'll go in reverse order. Like
the the number one concern was
you know what if this thing sort of
doesn't work out like what if the graph
as a project or this industry as a whole
gets regulated out of existence or
there's just nothing there but yeah
eight months in lots of interviews lots
of talking to people it it seemed like a
a relatively minor risk in addition to
that I was a little burned out on Tradfi
I'd seen enough of that industry so even
though I loved the team and I had a
really great experience sort of taking
part in building what that eventually
became
um that industry itself wasn't that that
sexy to me anymore. So tech seemed
interesting and you know how do you work
with people that are based in Silicon
Valley and sort of run in those circles?
Uh from where I lived I wasn't going to
relocate my family. Well, you go online
and you meet them and you join the
community. So it seemed like an
opportunity to connect in to something
super interesting. Um so the risks at
that time to me I felt like I I had kind
of gone through them all. I guess the
other risk was just the opportunity
cost. You know, when I left Tradfi in
that role there, I was giving up
somewhat of a legacy and something I had
worked really hard to build. But um for
all the factors I just said, it seemed
like uh worth taking it. And I forget
the first part of your question, but I'm
happy to sort of answer that, so forgive
me. But
>> no, yeah. What was what were the pros?
Like what was like this is it?
>> I think it came down to one thing. I'm
so glad uh you reminded me. It was
if you look back on humanity, right?
Like go way back. Go to the go back to
the pyramids and further back if you
can, right? How many inflection points
in terms of industries emerging
can you point to and how lucky do you
have to be to sort of be on the scene
and have a chance to to do that? So I
wanted to do something meaningful with
my life. I mean, you know, work, we all
work um if you work in web 3, you work
all the time. And people that aren't in
the in the space yet, you know, probably
do the the 8 to 5 thing and probably
even some overtime. But if you're going
to spend that time on something, it
should be meaningful to you. It's one
thing to feed yourself and your family.
It's another thing to just kind of burn
eight hours or more of your day uh for
something you don't care about. So, I
was really interested in taking part in
something that seemed meaningful.
and the idea that it was an emerging
industry and those don't come around,
you know, there's not going to be a new
industry next year or the year after
that, we don't know when these things
are going to happen. But if one shows up
and you've got uh an invitation to sit
at the table, it seemed to me like in
terms of just being a human, having a
human experience and looking at the way
these things go, it would be, you know,
a real miss not to try to take part in
something like that. So that was the
ultimate motivation of like, yeah, this
is this is in the broader scheme of
things something I should try.
>> Yeah. So, um, when people like first
discover Bitcoin, the sexy idea is like,
um, this is a new money that's hard and
it it doesn't have a government. When
people first stumble on um a government
backing it when people first stumbling
stumble on Ethereum, this is the world's
supercomput where real world assets can
live on it forever. It's digital oil.
When people stumble on the graph,
they're like decentralized indexing and
querying protocols. I I don't see how
like somebody can get like super bought
in to this kind of like integral part of
web 3 infrastructure, but like you kind
of need to be in the weeds a little bit
to understand the the importance of what
the graph protocol offers. So maybe now
we can use this as an opportunity to
just like Eli 5 elevator pitch what the
graph protocol is and like why did it
click for you as somebody who was like
ready to leave tradfi. Why did you go
into this super niche architecture and
infrastructure as like this is my all-in
space. Yeah. Well, so the graph made it
super easy for me. Now now these folks
over time became my colleagues, right?
But at the time I didn't know who
anybody was other than the research I
had done. But you know they branded the
graph the Google of web 3. So you know I
I understood it immediately and yes I
had to click into what is indexing and
and how does that sort of work and again
I had the benefit of all these
interviews. The first interview I ever
did episode number one was by the way
somebody I stay in touch with all the
time. Like we became friends. He lives
on a different side of the the planet
and we talk and stay in touch and we've
been through a lot of life events
together. So it's really amazing that I
just reached out blindly to this person.
and he's like, "Yeah, I'll do an
interview." Um, and it was an indexer.
So, a long OG longtime contributor
indexer at the graph. And so, through
that interview, you know, I got a front
row seat to understanding what indexing
was. And I ended up interviewing a lot
of different indexers on the graph who
uh for the audience th those are node
operators. They are the ones that supply
the queries and the data to users who
use the graph. So, they're the
infrastructure partners. And um yeah, so
Google of uh blockchains super easy to
understand. I was already on third base,
so to speak. Um, the other thing was,
you know, there there's some great
articles out there, uh, you know, I know
Multicoin wrote about this on on their
blog, but this this thing called, you
know, the read write problem. So, it
seemed fairly intuitive to me um, at the
time and probably for you and your
audience, you were probably way ahead of
this, but, you know, blockchains are
fundamentally intended to be written to.
that's sort of what the technology does
and we all love it and we we we want to
participate in this industry by virtue
of that quality but reading blockchain
isn't as easy and it wasn't necessarily
designed to be read from and so I sort
of using my business or uh strategy lens
identified that this was a legitimate
problem like uh it's clear that if
blockchain tech continues to grow in
adoption and it solves inherently the
right problem. Somebody's got to figure
out the read component. And so over
time, I came to appreciate the graph's
role in that. And you know, the graph as
an industry participant has evolved over
time. But I don't think it gets enough
credit. And by the way, this has nothing
to do with me. I wasn't on the I wasn't
on the bus at this point. But what the
graph did for the industry as a whole as
a pioneer, introducing subgraphs, um
launching graph node, uh setting the
standards and sort of really providing a
backbone for DeFi summer and and sort of
everything that came out of that. The
graph doesn't get enough credit for
being an OG in sort of standing up the
industry in that way. And as I said, I I
had nothing to do with at the time. I I
I doubt I even talked to my brother at
the point that sort of the graph was
getting their hands really dirty on that
stuff. So shout out to that first
generation. But yeah, anybody who
studies the nature of the problem um
reading blockchain data and will
understand sort of the value of what the
graph does and and even if you don't
understand the tech, why it's necessary.
>> Maybe you can um help paint a picture
then because even the most technical
people don't understand the role of
querying and and things of this nature.
So maybe just like give a few examples
of how apps or DAPs in general in the
general blockchain ecosystem are
improved or empowered by the graph.
>> Yeah. So I'll do my best and what I want
to say is like every DAP that you see in
the web 3 space is taking data off the
blockchain and conveying information to
users, right? So without a DAP kind of
doing that for us, a dashboard or a
report or some data um maybe it's an
infographic whatever it is they have
found that data on the blockchain.
They've taken some effort and some time
to convey that information to you. They
have to make a decision. They have to
make a decision of like okay as Nick
said a moment ago blockchains are easy
to write to but they're hard to read.
So, do we want to build an internal
reading mechanism that we'll run
ourselves? We'll invest in it. We'll
we'll get a team. We'll get the
technology, whatever we need to do to
read the blockchain data such that we're
always displaying up-to-date, accurate
information to our users who come to us
for information about what's going on on
the blockchain. Well, as it turns out,
that's a complicated problem, right? Uh
how so? Well, there's a lot of
blockchains, right? So now you got this
team and you're like, you know, go
figure out how to index, that is
retrieve data from the blockchain and
display it to our users. It's like,
well, what about this new blockchain?
What about the, you know, 3,000 over
there? All these different blockchains
every week. So they they have to make
some trade-offs and it gets expensive
and super cumbersome. So number one,
they don't want to expand the team. It
was just created to uh provide a, you
know, solution or a service to their
users, but it's a heavy operational
investment. So those types of teams
eventually either because they scale to
the point where they don't want to pay
for that infrastructure anymore or any
other variety of reasons. Maybe their
team isn't uh fast enough or maybe they
just can't get enough of the different
blockchains. So they have to make a
decision about a partnership like who
are we going to use then to read
blockchain data so that we can do our
magic and display it to our users. And
this is really where the graph sort of
historically has entered the
conversation. Um and you have options at
this point. It's a fork in the road
moment, right? As a DAP, we're taking
that as our perspective here. You can
choose a centralized solution and and
there are centralized competitors to the
graph who will have you sign, you know,
a terms of uh and conditions agreement.
Um they have all their sort of SAS-like
operational um characteristics and
attributes. you can choose one of them
or you could say no, you know, we kind
of want to stick with that web 3 ethos
and we want to go with something that's
decentralized and and there's a lot of
reasons why you might do that. So, for
example, if you go with a SAS partner um
and their servers go down, you go down.
Um if you go with a SAS partner and they
change their terms of conditions,
they're like, "Hey, you know, we're
going to increase prices or hey, we
don't like the fact that your DAP is
displaying this type of data or whatever
it might be." um they can sort of turn
off and turn on services and anybody
who's been around long enough knows that
there's a lot of web two type of uh
entities that have done this to users,
right? They kind of rug you because they
change the way they do things. Um the
benefit of going with a decentralized
provider like the graph is you don't
have to deal with some of that stuff,
right? So any user of the graph doesn't
have to sign a contract or terms and
conditions type of thing. Um there is
tons of redundancy because as I
mentioned a moment ago um there are
indexers or node operators at the graph.
There's a bunch of them and they're
worldwide. So there's a tremendous
amount of redundancy and we don't you
know uh the graph and nobody at the
graph sort of owns that data, right? So
um if you work with a centralized uh
solution and you get sideways with them,
you probably have to have a debate about
well is that my data or your data? This
sucks. I have a DAP. I'm displaying
information, but like I need to take
that with me, right? If you're not going
to be a great partner, I I'm at the
graph like it's your data. There's no,
you know, ownership. So, um the way I've
sort of taught it to people uh who want
to think about it is, you know, when you
use Google,
you can search it for free. And it's
kind of like, well, what's their
business model then? If I can go to
google.com and just like search the
internet web 2 for free, how are they
monetizing this? And we've learned over
time, sadly, that we're the we're the
product, right? they're monetizing our
data. Uh at the graph that that doesn't
happen. You actually pay for the queries
and they're incredibly you know
cost-effective for an organization who
wants to scale and have a strong infra
uh partner. And so instead of I guess
turning the uh the user into the product
and the data into the product, it kind
of returns to the original thesis that
really you can just kind of make the
query uh the product and it safeguards
sort of all the participants. And so
that's um how I'd answer that question.
Sort of an overview of why someone would
select a graph. Of course, you can go on
the website, you can look at some of the
benchmarking studies, but there's all
these things related to uptime and
redundancy and things like that that are
super important to these dev teams. So,
it's not just like that decentralization
centralization tradeoff. It's also about
the performance of the tech. And uh you
can you can kind of read through all
that, but the graph does a great job
there as well. So, it's really important
that if you're going to launch a
decentralized project and go
head-to-head with centralized
competitors, that performance is up to
snuff and that that's not a trade-off
that you ask the users to make.
>> I'm not sure if there's been kind of
like this shining moment yet, but like
with Bitcoin, we had a moment for like
why Bitcoin um without getting into the
politics, there was the time when the
truckers in Cal in Canada had their bank
accounts frozen and you use Bitcoin to
pay for things. Um there was a moment
when AWS regions went down and images
couldn't be seen um in inside of like
websites because the the webs the
centralized storage solution wasn't up
and so that was another reason why a
decentralized service was better than
its centralized entity. Have we had in
your tenure at the graph, have we had
one of these moments where the graph
provided something that its centralized
competitor couldn't yet or is have we
just not had that kind of like implosive
moment from our centralized competitors?
You know, it's a great question and I
wish I had some of my colleagues that
have been around maybe a little longer
than I have. So, I'm not going to
provide like that amazing answer, but
it's the right question. And the way I
sort of think about this without knowing
if there was that moment or not, you
know, decentralization's tricky because
there's a lot of people who say, you
know, philosophically, the market
doesn't care. Devs don't care. They just
want the cheapest, fastest product. So,
you know, you got to check those boxes.
But decentralization does matter. And
the bet that the graph ecosystem is
making is that it may not matter to you
now, but we assure you over time it's
going to matter a lot. And the question
is when do you want to come to that
realization after you've come under
contract and built this infrastructure
with a centralized partner who you fall
out of uh you know alignment with or who
goes sideways or there's some worldwide
event that uh causes sort of
catastrophic technological impact that
your project your people um your users
are impacted by or do you just sort of
want to understand at present now that
even though the market might be slow to
appreciate the benefits of
decentralization that you want to be
ahead of that curve and sort of protect
yourself. Um, and so again, I don't
think this is primarily a graph thing. I
mean, in the context of getting
blockchain data access, we're in that
sector of the industry, but a lot of
organizations um in and around web 3 are
trying to make it more clear to the
broader community about how important
decentralization is. And my suspicion I
don't know uh but my sus suspicion is
that as the regulatory environment
environment evolves and we get more
clarity on what governments sort of
think about decentralization and how
they start classifying these types of
things within this industry a lot of
people are going to care a lot more
right so if the US government says
something declarative about Bitcoin or
Ethereum on the premise because it's
decentralized I think a lot of people
wake up and be like oh there's there's
even sort of government um clarity and
uh what some sort of importance leverage
to projects that are actually
decentralized. So yeah, the graph is
holding tight to that ethos. Um and
we're not going to let go of that.
>> I love it. Uh decentralization is a lot
like the police. You don't you don't
care about it till you need it.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's exactly right. It's
exactly right.
>> Um cool. So what's kind of like um
various different ecosystems have
various different roles and needs of
their foundations. So what's kind of
like the graph foundation's role and
what is the need that it fulfills for
the ecosystem?
>> Yeah. So the foundation has a very clear
mandate and we are very missiondriven.
So everyone on the foundation team
really adheres to our mandate and we
make decisions every day. be predicated
on that mandate and bring it to life.
And so we understand that our
responsibility, our mission is to
steward the health and growth of the
graph network and the ecosystem. And we
do that through you know several levers.
So the foundation obviously manages a
treasury. So there's a funding mechanism
to the things we do. Uh we want to
support and grow and um lift up projects
within the ecosystem. Um we want to also
offer certain types of legal or
governance type support. So for example
um there are a lot of questions related
to the logo and the website and the
domain and these different types of
things even sort of down to the
technology of the licensing and the IP
and so a foundation um and particularly
the graph foundation plays a ve very
important role and providing clarity
around um those types of questions and
then there's like this operational
bucket and it's really hard to describe
I'll do my best um but you know
basically a foundation has to take stock
of the ecosystem as a whole and the
partners uh that are uh contributing in
there. And it has to identify specific
operational uh tasks or activities that
it needs to backfill either until the
ecosystem matures such that somebody
else steps in there or maybe you hang on
to that for a long time because you need
to provide some stewardship or
mentorship or some like consulting like
uh engagement there. So there are
different I would call like business
functions that the foundation itself
performs or back fills um and that
changes over time right there was a
period of time where we provided certain
types of services and then uh we don't
provide those anymore and maybe we
provide other ones and every foundation
approaches this a little bit differently
even the graph sort of originally had a
specific thesis on that. So our goal is
to like deliver that mandate through
clarity on sort of our uh our funding
responsibilities that legal governance
type of oversight and stewarding and
then those operational uh functions that
we want to backfill support or provide
leadership on. And we do all of that
with sort of this wrapper of work
streams that drive community engagement,
drive community ownership. And so we
don't work in isolation. We're
constantly doing all of these things to
support and unleash the broader
ecosystem. Um, I think ultimately every
foundation wants to kind of be quiet and
not noticed as much and you want all the
builders up in front on the front row
getting all the attention and we work
really hard at the foundation to to make
that happen.
>> Yeah. the the ecosystem I cut my teeth
in is the NEO ecosystem. And years ago,
we did an interview with someone working
in the business development branch of
the foundation. And we asked him, where
do you see Neo, the the BD branch in 10
years? And he said, hopefully not here
because the ecosystem has like grown to
be able to provide these resources to
itself on its own. So, I've always found
that to be kind of like an interesting
thing in blockchain ecosystems is that
foundations are inherently designed to
hopefully work themselves out of a job.
Yeah.
>> Um, and so like congratulations, you've
won. You're out of a job. Um, but
>> in the meantime, you have to get there.
So, what does being a team lead for the
Graph Foundation mean? What what are you
tasking yourself with? What are your
priorities? What are your day-to-day?
How do you kind of like structure the
things that you think are important for
the for the foundation on behalf of the
ecosystem?
>> Yeah, so um I took the role in January
of 2025 and it was a big jump for me and
I met with the two prior leads. So we
had uh leadership at the foundation that
were the OG leaders. Gen one they were
there at the start and they became
really great mentors and advisers as I
studied out you know am I the right
person for the task and you know what is
it that the team needs and so they've
made themselves available ongoing. Um,
they're very well known. Eva Bayin and
uh a gentleman by the name of Martin. He
he likes security, so I'll just say
Martin. Everybody from the graph will
know who I'm talking about. But yeah,
very well known in the broader uh web 3
space and have been incredibly
instrumental in supporting me in my
role. I would say, you know, they gave
me some latitude to redefine that uh
role a little bit and and how I wanted
to go about it. Uh, I think they had one
approach and it was that go going from
zero to one type of approach and I think
they had the right skills for that and
they definitely, you know, burned the
candle at both ends to get us from zero
to one. Um, I think they look to me uh
my background and sort of what I what I
might be good at as maybe that that
leader that needs to come in and and
apply some more traditional management,
a little bit more structured. You know,
I've heard a couple people snicker that
I'm a little bit corporaty. Uh, which I
don't like, by the way, but uh, that is
what it is. But I think the point I'm
making is is that maybe just evolve a
little bit the foundation and that
leadership role. So, I really see my
role as team lead number one is making
sure that from a mandate perspective,
the foundation team is fully aligned. We
understand our mandate. We understand
how if we're if we're to steward the
health and growth of the network and the
ecosystem, how we do that via funding,
legal governance and our operational um
as you mentioned BD, whatever it is, our
operational um functions that we have in
house and then I think you know setting
strategy and driving alignment among the
the team but also all the contributors
within the ecosystem is really
important. So I think based on what I
can tell sort of with throughout the
industry, foundations have varying
appetites for offering leadership,
offering a strong uh strategic voice or
trying to orient uh different teams
towards a specific goal. I would argue,
but there's a lot smarter people out
there than me that we've sort of learned
over the last call it year or two that
foundations really need to do that more
proactively. It's not a it's not a
centralization risk. It's just like
foundations should do that. And so, um,
I've leaned into that. So, uh, if I were
around the dinner table with my family
reporting on my new gig and and sort of
what I was working on, I would say I'm
taking the team that exists, a lot of
whom are OGs, we're going to
professionalize a little bit the way we
work together and we work with people
within the ecosystem, and I'm just going
to apply some of my experiences to take
it to the next level as best as I can.
>> What do um, ecosystem growth initiatives
look like? Are you finding that a lot of
projects just need an indexer and
they're coming to you naturally? So
maybe BD isn't uh I don't want to say a
strong focus, but maybe like BD doesn't
have as much of a an emphasis as it
might in other ecosystems. Um or are you
finding that you need to incubate uh
projects um experience um psych uh by
bringing in um grassroots devs or
grassroots small scale projects? How how
does that look um from your perspective
in growing the ecosystem and how you
reach out to people and how you bring
them in?
>> Yeah. Um well, unfortunately some of
this is philosophical, right? So, it's
just sort of like how does Nick approach
growth and what's the playbook he's
going to adopt? And there's a variety of
ways to go about this. In fact, before I
became team team lead, I was um I was uh
uh head of growth or growth lead, I
forget the title at the moment, but um I
did a whole report on and I went back
and looked at McKenzie, Bane, Boston
Consulting, and a host of other books
that I sort of had read over the years.
And I I pulled out all the different
growth playbooks or vectors that um the
consulting the folks that actually get
paid to to to drive growth what they
came up with and you know I was able to
kind of give a presentation. So I had
before I became team lead some ideas
around what growth should look like and
in the playbooks available to us. I
think for me the way to think about it
is I sort of saw when I was moving into
my role sort of twofold. Number one is I
wanted to implement some of that like I
said professionalization operational
stuff and that's tough right nobody
outside of um the ecosystem is sort of
seeing the graph getting a little more
tight on processes and the way the
foundation works with core devs the way
the core devs work with other core devs
and things like that. So um it was tough
and you know we still got work to do but
making sure that uh we had very airtight
and logic and you know battle tested
operational
um excellence within within the graph
ecosystem was priority number one and
then to get more to your question how
then with this new foundation this more
you know uh Nick's approach to to
professionalize the foundation how then
do we begin growing and I think the
graph's an interesting point like a lot
of uh projects within the ecosystem. Um
it has some legacy investments and
thesis that worked in our case worked
well. Um we got a ton of thought
leadership. Everybody knows the graph.
The brand is very well recognized and
it's this question of like well what do
we want to do next? And my opinion on
that is like the graph as I said earlier
it's a pioneer like it stood up DeFi. It
introduced standards to the industry and
it's in the DNA of the graph, its
founders, all the contributors within
the ecosystem to be pioneers and so we
are working on uh a lot of things that I
think will sort of doubleclick on the
fact that the graph at its heart is a
pioneer and so I expect new technology
to be announced to the world uh soon uh
that I think a lot of people will find
interesting. If I had to sort of say
what it is without saying what it is, I
would just say, you know, the graph
understands that there needs to be a new
approach to indexing blockchain data and
the way in which we interact with it and
uh who better to do it than the folks
that launched it and learned all the
lessons along the way. So uh the graph
is looking at growth through new
technology and we're interested in other
market segments. So for a long time like
a lot of industry participants we all
targeted the dev community but the um
industry is becoming a little bit more
segmented and it's becoming a little bit
more you have to be a little more
thoughtful and deliberate about which
segments of the market you're going to
target. So as an example everybody's
talking about institutions right now who
you know who's coming from Wall Street
to participate and what are these uh
institutional type users going to look
for in technology. There's also this
bolt-on persona of like enterprise users
which is obviously a flavor too
different from institutions. And so uh
the graph is actively working on uh
forming some institutional and enterpris
uh users and bringing them to the
network. Uh again without saying too
much I'll say that it's been amazing to
see some of the traction we've had
there. And the big surprise for me, by
the way, is seeing this new um market
segment emerge was
big-time players, names that a lot of
people would probably recognize and
know. I'm talking like from Tradfi,
institutional type people already being
familiar with the graph and familiar
with the tech. And that was an amazing
moment for me uh and members of the
ecosystem to be like, "Oh, this isn't a
cold call. Um these folks know who we
are." So, we're super excited about
growth in different market segments and
we're paying a lot of attention to that
institutional enterprise segment uh
segments and uh and we're going to offer
some new tech pretty soon. So, I think a
lot of things coming for sure.
>> Very cool. I guess from as we zoom out
and and wrap up um the the graph is a
very unique portion of the web 3 tech
stack in terms of infrastructure and I
think that that shapes the way in which
you working in that ecosystem are able
to get your finger on the pulse for
what's happening with blockchain crypto
web 3 whatever and also to kind of like
envision in a different way where the
puck is going. Um I from the outside
looking in uh have very different
opinions for how the institutions are
coming in and the banks and fini and all
that. Um from your perspective from the
very unique niche in which you fill
where are we going as an industry?
You've kind of dropped some hints into
how you're planning to prepare the graph
to be ready to meet this next iteration,
but like in 2 to 3 years from your
perspective, where are we going to be
with cryptocurrencies and blockchain
networks? How prevalent is it going to
be in our day-to-day lives?
>> Yeah, I mean, I I always want to sound
super smart and to say the most amazing
thing, but I'll just be honest with you
and and you know, those that are tuning
in, I have no idea. and every nobody
knows. We're all guessing. And the
problem of asserting like a definitive
answer or or saying something super
declarative is the dynamic nature of
what's going on here. You have all these
institutional users showing up and
expressing interest in what's going on
here. Um you have an evolving um
governance or or or I meant regulatory
environment. So that's new. What's going
on there and how does that shake out?
And then you have just the dayto-day
nuts and bolts demand uh from people all
across the world for a solution and in
the in the types of things that this
industry provides. Right. So um you've
interviewed a lot of guests. I'm sure
you've done some out of country guests.
I was always shocked when I talked to
people that were outside of the US is
which is where I'm based to hear how
reliant they were on crypto as a hedge
against um inflationary risk or to ease
the ability to transact just to do
business. So this is a really dynamic
pro um problem set. I can't say anything
super smart about it. Um we're watching
we're we're trying to kind of get out
ahead of these things. I think AI is
another component of this uh that's
super interesting right so how does that
impact not only what we're trying to
build with the at the industry level but
sort of the participants like what is a
software engineer and a dev in 10 years
from now like how does that look um I'm
non-technical so I would we would need
to ask one of them h how this is
impacting them but my from what I'm
seeing it's had a huge impact so I think
we should pay attention to the
regulatory environment I think we should
pay attention to um
stable coins, real world assets, some of
these buzzwords that we're hearing. I
think we should pay attention to AI and
how that's going to shape the industry
and and the role it's going to play. And
I think the pioneers within web 3,
ecosystems like the graph, they'll
figure out what they need to do and
they'll they'll do what they've always
done, which is develop new tech um at
the bleeding edge of what's possible. in
in a world where everyone has a hot
take, having an honest answer where you
just say, "I don't know what just we're
just trying to meet meet demand as it
comes up." I think that that's um a
great answer in and it of itself. Um
kind of like zooming out, the last
question I want to ask, I know I know
might be hard, but I know that you can
you can kind of pull an answer um pretty
quickly. You you've been in the space
full-time now for four years. I remember
I had all these visions of sugar plums
and fairies when I first got into the
crypto space and I just thought there
were all these amazing things that were
going to happen and then reality ground
me down and here we are eight years
later and some things have come to to
fruition a lot of things haven't. So
drawing back on your experience over the
past four years, um the question I want
to ask is what's one thing that has been
delivered that you thought was going to
be delivered when you came into the
space and what's one thing that you
thought was going to be delivered but
hasn't yet done so.
>> Sure. So I think on the delivered side
it was AI. I mean the graph has a core
dev team and one of the graph founders
has been thinking a lot about that
intersection of AI and blockchain data
and I think the graph is starting to do
a lot of interesting things there. Um
for any listener that's like well what
what is that? Go check out um Yaniv Tall
and his team at Geo Geo their work on
knowledge graphs and what they're
building at Geo. uh it's a thesis on
that intersection between AI and
blockchain data and as I said we had
like a core dev team at the graph uh who
for a lot of years was sort of thinking
about number one how will AI facilitate
the transactions and the participation
in the network. So there was a tooling
component of it and then they were also
approaching this question of like how
does AI and blockchain data sort of
communicate in the world and how can we
facilitate that interaction. So I would
say on the firsthand delivery and and
something uh the graph was first to the
table one of the first to the table on
this AI blockchain convergence and the
story is far from over. um something
that wasn't delivered. I mean I'm not
going to have a great answer for this,
but I think,
you know, I think it's
I'm going to I'm going to kind of put
two answers on the table here, which is
like memecoins,
what's going on there? And and what's
the intent? And then NFTTS, is that
story over? I did a lot of interviews
with people on when I was doing my
podcast had smart things to say about
NFTs, and it wasn't about artwork and
stuff like that. it was about land
rights and um deeds and working with
institutions and so I doubt that story
is over yet but yeah where is that like
where is the next wave of what an NFT
actually secures for an individual and
then yeah uh stable coins like what is
this and and how is this going to shake
out um meme to coins what is this do we
need it can it shake out you know I'm
very s I'm very critical of those things
But um yeah, that's my answer to that.
>> Awesome. Well, Nick, uh thank you so
much for taking the time to join the
Smart Economy podcast today. If somebody
listened to this and they want to reach
out to you, who do you want to chat with
and how can they contact you?
>> Yeah, so find me on Twitter. I'm, you
know, 22 node on Twitter and reach out
to me. You can DM. I check my DMs and
yeah, you know, it's been fun to have
users and different people reach out to
me there. So start there and then yeah
if you know anybody in the graph
ecosystem that's building any of the
core dev teams um and you want to get up
todate on some of this tech that I've
hinted towards uh definitely reach out
to them. They can inform you and of
course you can always go to the
graph.com you can see all the different
products you can get started building
your own DAP using the graph with the
security and the benefits of building on
decentralized infras. So just go to
graph.com and plug in there. And lastly
congrats on episode 100. I remember
exactly my episode and the amount of
work that went into to doing that. So, I
didn't know before today that I was uh
episode 100, but uh because I've been in
your shoes, I just want to say major
shout out. Keep up the great work. You
did a great job today. A fun interview.
So, I loved spending time with you and
congrats to you and all the people
supporting this podcast. I hope there's
hundred more.
>> Cheers. And if anybody is hungry to get
a backlog, a wealth of knowledge and
information, go check out the GRT IQ
podcast. There's more than 200 episodes
for you to dig into and get a sense of
the history of what has happened in the
graph ecosystem and maybe kind of uh
smell the winds for where it's going
next. So, thank thank you so much today,
Nick, for for your time. Uh this was a
fantastic conversation and um congrats
on your role at team lead and to the
many things that you and your team are
going to be building.
>> Thank you so much, Dylan.
>> Cheers. Thank you so much for tuning in
to the Smart Economy podcast. To stay in
the loop with all of our latest episodes
and insights, head over to
www.smarteconomyodcast.com.
And don't forget to subscribe to our
YouTube channel for all of our video
content. If you enjoyed this discussion,
please consider showing your support by
liking, commenting, and reviewing this
episode on your favorite podcasting
platform. Your feedback helps us reach
more listeners and bring even better
content your way. And we'd also love to
hear from you. So, please drop a comment
on Spotify or YouTube to share what
topics you'd like us to cover or who
you'd like to see as our next guest. And
if you or someone you know might make
for an interesting guest, please don't
hesitate to reach out. We're always on
the hunt for fresh voices and new
perspectives.
And for our NEO token holders out there,
please consider voting for NEO news
today as your council representative.
We've proudly been serving the NEO
ecosystem since 2017 and we'll continue
to do so by putting portions of our
council rewards directly back into
ecosystem growth initiatives. So once
again, thank you for taking the time to
tune in to the Smart Economy podcast and
we will catch you on the next one.